What you have is OK, but it is fairly derivative. That is, there is little here that is truly engaging. It neither feels particularly like Star Trek, nor does it feel particularly novel. Where is the ship as more than just a mode of transportation? Where is ship to ship combat, a mainstay of the Star Trek series? The focus on exploration of planetary resources is good. Given the circumstances in the game, and the requirements of the game, the focus on exploitation of resources makes sense, too, though it does not feel particularly Star Trek-like (Star Trek exists in a post-need culture where the valuable materials-dilithium crystals, for example-are extremely rare and allow for some of the more extravagant technologies, like warp drive. I don’t disagree with your decision here, but it is more of a hard sci-fi element and low-level resource aspect of the world while Star Trek is moderately hard sci-fi and high-level resource world).

It looks like you are at least considering the possibility of taking this idea forward. If so, you are a long way from being able to develop. What are your story arcs? How are they to be implemented through missions and battles? We know the currency/materials of the world, but we don’t know how they are to be balanced against each other. What are some touchpoint costs? How much is a standard turret? How much are its upgrades? How might this compare to a more advanced turret and its upgrades? (Linear model progression? Exponential?). Think about how much material you will need to place in the world as rewards for battles versus costs for a typical battle. How about a boss battle? What is the reward structure for mining/exploiting materials? How much game time are you expecting players to spend mining and/or trading? How will this be fun? How much in battles? You have some explanations of how this will be fun, but see above for potentially possibilities for greater use of theme, ties to Star Trek (and FTL?), and novelty.

You have a sense of exploration in theory, but in practice how are you going to reward exploration with interesting occurrences? Simply gaining resources is not exciting unless a player is already excited about a project (or confident there will be a potential future project) that need that material. We are excited by the satisfaction of desire, especially after it has been withheld for a time. If we only find we want something when we already have the opportunity to obtain it, the thing we obtain is not nearly as exciting. How are you going to tease players with potential new possibilities? How are you going to entice players to continue playing the game and finding out what’s around the next corner?

Your structure for the doc is good. You cover the high level questions I have, and your level design is simple but clear in intent. It is lacking many of the specifics of the creatures you will encounter, but it is working toward it.

Feel free to contact me with questions or follow-up thoughts. I hope you do continue to think about this project. If you find a novel aspect to it, and a good feel and UI, you could have a game with real audience potential, but you need to tighten the design and look for the areas of player attraction and retention (how to get and keep player’s interest) throughout.

